What is web browser and how does it work?

A web browser, or browser for short, is a software application that you use to
browse the World Wide Web. It works by sending a request to a web server and
then receives a response containing the content that is to be displayed on the
screen of your device. Once the browser is open on your device, there is the
address bar where you input the address of the website that you want to visit.
The address is commonly known as the Uniform Resource Locator or URL for short.
The URL contains the protocol or the HTTP, the domain name, usually the name of
the website, and the file path, or the path to the page that is displayed. When
you make a request using this URL, the browser and server communicate using a
protocol known as the Hypertext Transfer Protocol or HTTP. Once the web browser
receives the content, it displays it on the screen of your device.

First, you open a web browser, which is a software application. Next, you type
the name of your favorite search engine. The name you type contains something
called a domain name. Then when you press Enter, the web browser sends a request
across a network and connects to another computer on the Internet called a web
server. The web server is a special type of computer that allows other computers
to make requests for data. The web server responds by sending a webpage back to
the browser. Once the browser receives all the response information, the search
engine webpage is made visible. The web page is a coded document that is
rendered by the browser and then presented visually to you, the end-user. Now
that the search engine webpage is loaded in the browser, you interact with that
page to search for what you want to find. For example, type restaurants near me
in the search bar and press the search button. Once again, the browser prepares
and sends a request to the same search engine web server. This time, the request
contains the added instructions to search for the phrase restaurants near me.
The search engine web server processes the request by taking the keyword and
using it to find the requested data. This data is stored in something called a
database, which is connected to the web server. The web server then picks up
that data and sends it back to the browser. When the web browser receives the
full response from the web server, it again renders a visible webpage with links
to some restaurants, a map showing nearby locations and more related information
such as reviews, lists, and even reservations. 